[IMP] sales: updated down payment doc for RST and image reasons (#4495)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/sales/sales/invoicing/down_payment.rst

=============
Down payments
=============

A down payment is a partial payment made by the buyer when a sales contract is concluded. This
implies both parties' (seller and buyer) full commitment to honor the contract.

> With a down payment, the buyer shows their will to acquire the product, and provides a portion of
> the total payment, agreeing to pay the remaining amount at a later date. In turn, the seller is
> obliged to provide the goods to the buyer, by accepting the down payment, trusting that the
> remaining amount will eventually be paid.

Reviewer: Reads a little strange because of the verb tense and possible missing conjunctions.
Here's a suggested rewrite which also cuts down a line:
```suggestion
With a down payment, the buyer pays a portion of the total amount owed while agreeing to pay the
remaining amount at a later date. In turn, the seller provides goods or services to the buyer after
accepting the down payment, trusting that the remaining amount will be paid later on.
```

Initial down payment request
============================

When a sales order is confirmed, the option to create an invoice becomes available, via the
:guilabel:`Create Invoice` button, located in the upper-left corner of the sales order form. When
clicked, a :guilabel:`Create invoices` pop-up appears.

.. note::
   Invoices are automatically created in drafts, so they can be reviewed before validation.

On the :guilabel:`Create invoices` pop-up, there are 3 options to choose from in the
:guilabel:`Create Invoice` field:

- :guilabel:`Regular invoice`
- :guilabel:`Down payment (percentage)`
- :guilabel:`Down payment (fixed amount)`

> .. note::

Reviewer: would move this note inline with, and underneath, the **Regular invoice** list item

   If :guilabel:`Regular Invoice` is selected, then the other fields disappear, as they only
   pertain to down payment configurations.

In terms of down payment, it can either be a fixed amount or a percentage of the total amount. The
first time a down payment is requested, it can be set to a specific percentage of the total amount,

> or a specific fixed amount.

Reviewer: The sentences in lines 34-36 seem redundant and can be combined into one clear sentence.

Once the desired down payment option is selected in the :guilabel:`Create Invoice` field, designate

> the desired amount (either percentage or fixed amount) in the :guilabel:`Down Payment Amount` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the desired amount (either as a percentage or fixed amount) in the :guilabel:`Down Payment Amount` field.
```

Then, select the appropriate income account for the invoice in the :guilabel:`Income Account` field,
and add a tax amount, if necessary, in the :guilabel:`Customer Taxes` field. These settings will be
reused for future down payments.

.. image:: down_payment/create-invoices-popup-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How to configure a down payment on Odoo Sales.

.. important::
   When a down payment is first requested, a new product called :guilabel:`Down payment` is created.
   This product is registered as a :guilabel:`Service` product, with an invoicing policy of
   :guilabel:`Ordered quantities`. This product can be edited and modified at any time.

> .. note::

Reviewer: I can't tell if this **note** would be better as:
a) a warning block instead, or
b) as a last sentence in the **important** block above it.

Maybe some more context would help, i.e., If delivered quantities is chosen as the invoicing policy— for the original product or the Down payment product?

   If :guilabel:`Delivered quantities` is chosen as the invoicing policy, an invoice will **not** be
   able to be created.

> Down payments in basic sales flow
> =================================

Reviewer: suggestion since 50% down payments are pretty common 

```suggestion
Request a 50% down payment
==========================
```

When the order is confirmed (via the :guilabel:`Confirm` button), it's time to create/view the
invoice, by clicking :guilabel:`Create Invoice`.

Then, on the :guilabel:`Create invoices` pop that appears, select :guilabel:`Down payment
(percentage)`, and type `50` in the :guilabel:`Down Payment Amount` field. Lastly, click
:guilabel:`Create and View Invoice` to create and view the invoice.

.. image:: down_payment/create-invoices-popup.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Create invoices pop up window in Odoo Sales.

Doing so reveals the draft invoice, which mentions the down payment.

.. image:: down_payment/draft-invoice.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A sample draft invoice with down payment mentioned in Odoo Sales.

From there, the invoice can be confirmed/posted, and the payment can be registered. Return to the
sales order, via the breadcrumbs.

On the sales order, the option to view what the customer will see is available, via the
:guilabel:`Customer Preview` smart button, and the :guilabel:`Invoice` button reveals the drafted
invoice. In either case, the down payment is mentioned on both the sales order and draft invoice.

> .. image:: down_payment/down-payment-line-item.png

Reviewer: This image is too large.

   :align: center
   :alt: How the down payment is mentioned on the sales order in Odoo Sales.

To confirm and register the first payment of the down payment, click the :guilabel:`Invoices` smart
button to return to the invoice. On the :guilabel:`Customer Invoice` page, click
:guilabel:`Confirm`, then :guilabel:`Register Payment` to open a :guilabel:`Register Payment`
pop-up form.

.. image:: down_payment/register-payment-popup.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How the register payment pop up looks in Odoo Sales.

On this form, select the appropriate :guilabel:`Journal` and confirm that the down payment amount
is correct in the :guilabel:`Amount` field. Then, make any other modifications to the other fields,
if necessary, before clicking :guilabel:`Create Payment`.

> Odoo returns to the invoice, which now has a green `Paid` banner in the upper-right corner.

Reviewer: think this would be more accurate as a [guilabel](https://www.odoo.com/documentation/15.0/contributing/documentation/rst_cheat_sheet.html#gui-element) especially since **Not Paid** is formatted like that later in the doc
```suggestion
Odoo returns to the invoice, which now has a green guilabel:`Paid` banner in the upper-right corner.
```

> .. image:: down_payment/paid-banner-invoice-1.png

Reviewer: this image is borderline line too small...we can go up to 933px wide if we need to in order to cover larger spreads of the screen, or can crop just to show the upper portion of the invoice where the banner is 👍

   :align: center
   :alt: How the initial down payment invoice has a green paid banner in Odoo Sales.

Now, when the customer wants to pay the remaining amount of the order, another invoice must be
created. To do that, return to the sales order, and click :guilabel:`Create Invoice`.

> On the :guilabel:`Create invoices` pop-up, there is now an option to :guilabel:`Deduct down

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the :guilabel:`Create invoices` pop-up window, there is now an option to :guilabel:`Deduct down
```

payments`, which is selected by default.

.. image:: down_payment/deduct-down-payments-option.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The deduct down payment option on the create invoices pop up in Odoo Sales.

If the remaining amount is ready to be paid, the :guilabel:`Regular Invoice` option should be
selected, and the :guilabel:`Deduct down payments` option should *stay* selected. Then, click
:guilabel:`Create and View Invoice`.

Doing so reveals a separate :guilabel:`Invoices` page, listing all the invoices for that specific
sales order. Each invoice line item displays all the necessary information related to each invoice,
along with the current :guilabel:`Payment Status`.

> .. image:: down_payment/down-payment-invoices-page.png

Reviewer: This screenshot is pretty small and difficult to read...

   :align: center
   :alt: The down payment invoices page in Odoo Sales.

To complete the flow, select the invoice with the :guilabel:`Not Paid` status, which opens that
invoice. On the invoice page, click :guilabel:`Confirm`, then :guilabel:`Register Payment`, and
confirm that the remaining :guilabel:`Amount` is correct. Then, click :guilabel:`Create Payment`.

> That pop-up disappears, and a green `Paid` banner is now present on the invoice. The line items on

Reviewer: reminder: pop-up is a compound modifier in technical documentation, not a noun as we normally might refer to it as when speaking informally.

```suggestion
That pop-up window disappears, and a green `Paid` banner is now present on the invoice. The line items on
```

the invoice show that the total amount has been paid, including mentions of the down payment, and
the flow is complete.

> .. image:: down_payment/invoice-complete-paid-banner-2.png

Reviewer: similar here to the first one...
can crop just to show the banner (in which case we might not need), or go up to 933px to show the whole form, being sure to crop away anything that's not necessary on the UI

Author: Since the banner is the same as above, I believe the cropped image of the banner is redundant in this case - so I'm going to go ahead and delete the image altogether.

   customer. This is because, due to the invoicing policy, the product(s) would have to be delivered
   *before* creating the final invoice.

   If nothing has been delivered, a :guilabel:`Credit Note` is created, which cancels the draft
   invoice that was created after the down payment. To utilize the :guilabel:`Credit Note` option,
   the *Inventory* application must be installed, in order to confirm the delivery. Otherwise, the
   delivered quantity can be entered manually directly on the sales order.

Income account and customer taxes modifications
===============================================

To adjust the income account and customer taxes attached to a down payment, navigate to the
:guilabel:`Products` page (:menuselection:`Sales app --> Products --> Products`), search for the
`Down Payment` product in the search bar, and select it to reveal the product detail page.

On the :guilabel:`Down Payment` product page, click :guilabel:`Edit`, then scroll down to the
:guilabel:`General Information` tab. In this tab, the customer taxes can be modified in the
:guilabel:`Customer Taxes` field.

> .. image:: down_payment/customer-taxes-field.png

Reviewer: pretty small / difficult to read this tiny field 😅

   :align: center
   :alt: How to modify the income account link to down payments

> To change/adjust the income account attached to the :guilabel:`Down Payment` product page, the

Reviewer: suggestion 
```suggestion
To change or adjust the income account attached to the :guilabel:`Down Payment` product page, the
```

=====================
Down payment requests
=====================

A down payment is a partial payment made by the buyer when a sales contract is concluded. This

> implies both parties' full commitment (seller and buyer) to honor the contract.

Reviewer: Parenthesis in this case would go after the noun that it's referencing
```suggestion
implies both parties' (seller and buyer) full commitment to honor the contract.
```

With a down payment, the buyer shows their will to acquire the product, and provides a portion of
the total payment, agreeing to pay the remaining amount at a later date. In turn, the seller is
obliged to provide the goods to the buyer, by accepting the down payment, trusting that the
remaining amount will eventually be paid.

Initial down payment request
============================

When a sales order is confirmed, the option to create an invoice becomes available, via the
:guilabel:`Create Invoice` button, located in the upper-left corner of the sales order form. When
clicked, a :guilabel:`Create invoices` pop-up appears.

.. note::
   Invoices are automatically created in drafts, so they can be reviewed before validation.

On the :guilabel:`Create invoices` pop-up, there are 3 options to choose from in the
:guilabel:`Create Invoice` field:

- :guilabel:`Regular invoice`
- :guilabel:`Down payment (percentage)`
- :guilabel:`Down payment (fixed amount)`

.. note::

>    If :guilabel:`Regular Invoice` is selected the other fields disappear, as they only pertain to
>    down payment configurations.

Reviewer: If --> comma --> then
```suggestion
   If :guilabel:`Regular Invoice` is selected, then the other fields disappear, as they only pertain
   to down payment configurations.
```

In terms of down payment, it can either be a fixed amount or a percentage of the total amount. The
first time a down payment is requested, it can be set to a specific percentage of the total amount,
or a specific fixed amount.

Once the desired down payment option is selected in the :guilabel:`Create Invoice` field, designate

> the desired amount (either percentage or fixed amount) in the :guilabel:`Down Payment Amount`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the desired amount (either percentage or fixed amount) in the :guilabel:`Down Payment Amount` field.
```

Author: I will make this change, but perhaps there's something wrong with my Visual Studio, because (including the period) it comes out to 101. But, maybe the period doesn't count?

Reviewer: Your highlight extension tool might not be correct.
It should come out to 101 because the first character starts at 1 (not 0).

field.

> Then, select the appropriate income account for the invoice in the :guilabel:`Income Account`
> field, and add a tax amount (if necessary) in the :guilabel:`Customer Taxes` field. These settings
> will be reused for future down payments.

Reviewer: 100th char, comma > parenthesis for the conjunction
```suggestion
Then, select the appropriate income account for the invoice in the :guilabel:`Income Account` field,
and add a tax amount, if necessary, in the :guilabel:`Customer Taxes` field. These settings will be
reused for future down payments.
```

Author: same thing here - it's showing up as 101 characters

.. image:: down_payment/create-invoices-popup-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How to configure a down payment on Odoo Sales.

.. important::

>    When a down payment is first requested, a new product called :guilabel:`Down payment` is
>    created. This product is registered as a :guilabel:`Service` product, with an invoicing policy
>    of :guilabel:`Ordered quantities`. As a reminder, this product can be edited and modified at any
>    time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   When a down payment is first requested, a new product called :guilabel:`Down payment` is created.
   This product is registered as a :guilabel:`Service` product, with an invoicing policy of
   :guilabel:`Ordered quantities`. This product can be edited and modified at any time.
```

.. note::

>    Please note that if :guilabel:`Delivered quantities` is chosen as the invoicing policy, an
>    invoice will **not** be able to be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If :guilabel:`Delivered quantities` is chosen as the invoicing policy, an invoice will **not** be
   able to be created.
```

Author: yeah, something must be wrong with my Visual Studio, because this shows as 101 characters

Down payments in basic sales flow
=================================

For the following example, the flow involves a 50% amount down payment on a product with
:guilabel:`Ordered quantities` as the invoicing policy.

> .. note::
>    Make sure to check out the documentation about invoicing policies,
>    :doc:`/applications/sales/sales/invoicing/invoicing_policy`, before requesting the first down
>    payment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. seealso::
   :doc:`/applications/sales/sales/invoicing/invoicing_policy`
```

When the order is confirmed (via the :guilabel:`Confirm` button), it's time to create/view the
invoice, by clicking :guilabel:`Create Invoice`.

Then, on the :guilabel:`Create invoices` pop that appears, select :guilabel:`Down payment
(percentage)`, and type `50` in the :guilabel:`Down Payment Amount` field. Lastly, click
:guilabel:`Create and View Invoice` to create and view the invoice.

.. image:: down_payment/create-invoices-popup.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Create invoices pop up window in Odoo Sales.

> Doing so reveals the draft invoice, which mentions the down payment (as seen below).

Reviewer: Images are only supplemental. To communicate more information, write it out.
```suggestion
Doing so reveals the draft invoice, which mentions the down payment.
```

.. image:: down_payment/draft-invoice.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A sample draft invoice with down payment mentioned in Odoo Sales.

> From there, the invoice can be confirmed/posted, and the payment can be registered. But,
> realistically, this flow does not happen immediately. So, for now, return to the sales order, via
> the breadcrumbs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From there, the invoice can be confirmed/posted, and the payment can be registered. Return to the
sales order, via the breadcrumbs.
```

On the sales order, the option to view what the customer will see is available, via the
:guilabel:`Customer Preview` smart button, and the :guilabel:`Invoice` button reveals the drafted

> invoice. In either case, the down payment is mentioned on both (sales order and draft invoice).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
invoice. In either case, the down payment is mentioned on both the sales order and draft invoice.
```

pop-up form.

.. image:: down_payment/register-payment-popup.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How the register payment pop up looks in Odoo Sales.

On this form, select the appropriate :guilabel:`Journal` and confirm that the down payment amount
is correct in the :guilabel:`Amount` field. Then, make any other modifications to the other fields,
if necessary, before clicking :guilabel:`Create Payment`.

Odoo returns to the invoice, which now has a green `Paid` banner in the upper-right corner.

.. image:: down_payment/paid-banner-invoice-1.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How the initial down payment invoice has a green paid banner in Odoo Sales.

Now, when the customer wants to pay the remaining amount of the order, another invoice must be
created. To do that, return to the sales order, and click :guilabel:`Create Invoice`.

On the :guilabel:`Create invoices` pop-up, there is now an option to :guilabel:`Deduct down
payments`, which is selected by default.

.. image:: down_payment/deduct-down-payments-option.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The deduct down payment option on the create invoices pop up in Odoo Sales.

> So, in this case, since the customer is ready to pay the remaining amount, the :guilabel:`Regular
> Invoice` option should be selected, and the :guilabel:`Deduct down payments` option should *stay*
> selected. Then, click :guilabel:`Create and View Invoice`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the remaining amount is ready to be paid, the :guilabel:`Regular Invoice` option should be
selected, and the :guilabel:`Deduct down payments` option should *stay* selected. Then, click
:guilabel:`Create and View Invoice`.
```

sales order. Each invoice line item displays all the necessary information related to each invoice,
along with the current :guilabel:`Payment Status`.

.. image:: down_payment/down-payment-invoices-page.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The down payment invoices page in Odoo Sales.

To complete the flow, select the invoice with the :guilabel:`Not Paid` status, which opens that
invoice. On the invoice page, click :guilabel:`Confirm`, then :guilabel:`Register Payment`, and
confirm that the remaining :guilabel:`Amount` is correct. Then, click :guilabel:`Create Payment`.

That pop-up disappears, and a green `Paid` banner is now present on the invoice. The line items on
the invoice show that the total amount has been paid, including mentions of the down payment, and
the flow is complete.

.. image:: down_payment/invoice-complete-paid-banner-2.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The completed step of the down payment sales flow process in Odoo Sales.

This flow is also possible with the :guilabel:`Fixed amount` down payment option.

.. important::
   If a down payment is used with a product that has a :guilabel:`Delivered quantities` invoicing

>    policy, all the down payments **won't** be able to be deducted when it comes time to invoice the
>    customer. This is because, due to the invoicing policy, the product(s) would have to be
>    delivered *before* creating the final invoice.

Reviewer: 100th char, contraction, wording
```suggestion
   policy, the down payments will **not** be able to be deducted when it comes time to invoice the
   customer. This is because, due to the invoicing policy, the product(s) would have to be delivered
   *before* creating the final invoice.
```

   If nothing has been delivered, a :guilabel:`Credit Note` is created, which cancels the draft

>    invoice that was created after the down payment. To do that, the *Inventory* application must be

Reviewer: "To do that"

...to do what, exactly?

Author: added more clarification

   manually directly on the sales order.

Income account and customer taxes modifications
===============================================

To adjust the income account and customer taxes attached to a down payment, navigate to the
:guilabel:`Products` page (:menuselection:`Sales app --> Products --> Products`), search for the
`Down Payment` product in the search bar, and select it to reveal the product detail page.

On the :guilabel:`Down Payment` product page, click :guilabel:`Edit`, then scroll down to the
:guilabel:`General Information` tab. In this tab, the customer taxes can be modified in the
:guilabel:`Customer Taxes` field.

.. image:: down_payment/customer-taxes-field.png
   :align: center
   :alt: How to modify the income account link to down payments

To change/adjust the income account attached to the :guilabel:`Down Payment` product page, the
*Accounting* app **must** be installed. With the *Accounting* app installed, the
:guilabel:`Accounting` tab becomes available on the product page. That tab will **not** be
accessible without the *Accounting* app installed.

In the :guilabel:`Accounting` tab, the income account can be changed in the :guilabel:`Income

> Account` field, in the :guilabel:`Receivables` section. Once all desired changes are complete,
> click :guilabel:`Save`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Account` field, in the :guilabel:`Receivables` section. Once all desired changes are complete, click
:guilabel:`Save`.
```
